doc/grpc_telemetry.md, before:

# SONiC gRPC data telemetry

   * [Overview of gRPC data telemetry in SONiC](#overview-of-grpc-data-telemetry-in-sonic)
   * [Data available in SONiC](#data-available-in-sonic)
   * [gRPC operations for data telemetry in SONiC](#grpc-operations-for-data-telemetry-in-sonic)
      * [Usage of SONiC telemetry server binary](#usage-of-sonic-telemetry-server-binary)
      * [GetRequest/GetResponse](#getrequestgetresponse)
      * [SubscribeRequest](#subscriberequest)
         * [Stream mode](#stream-mode)
         * [Poll mode](#poll-mode)
   * [Authentication](#authentication)
   * [Encryption](#encryption)

# Overview of gRPC data telemetry in SONiC

At the daily operation of datacenter network, being able to get the underlying characteristics of the network devices - either operational state or configuration, efficiently and quickly in structured format will greatly facilitate the analysis of network status and improve network stability.  Besides the traditional data collecting methods like SNMP, syslog and CLI,  gRPC is the modern communication protocol supported by SONiC for telemetry streaming.

The implementation of gRPC data telemetry is largely based on [gNMI](https://github.com/openconfig/reference/blob/master/rpc/gnmi/gnmi-specification.md) (gRPC Network Management Interface) with customization for SONiC.

# Data available in SONiC

In SONiC, most of the critical network and system data is stored in redisDB. Based on the data type and usage, they are spread in 6 DBs

|DB name    |   DB No. |     Description|
|  ----     |:----:| ----|
|APPL_DB    |  0 |   Application running data |
|ASIC_DB    |  1 |   ASIC configuration and state data
|COUNTERS_DB | 2 |   Counter data for port, lag, queue
|LOGLEVEL_DB | 3 |   Log level control for SONiC modules
|CONFIG_DB   | 4 |   Source of truth for SONiC configuration
|PFC_WD_DB   | 5 |   For PFC watch dog counters control
|FLEX_COUNTER_DB| 5 | Alias for PFC_WD_DB
|STATE_DB       | 6 | Configuration state for object in CONFIG_DB

The role and layer of each DB is also shown in the diagram below:

![SONiC DB](img/sonic_db.png)

Within each DB,  the data usually is organized in hierarchy of Table, key, field, value. Ex.  for "CONFIG_DB", there is "VLAN" table, and "Vlan1500" is one of the keys in this table,  associated with "Vlan1500" there is one field named "admin_status" with value of "up"

```
{
  "VLAN": {
    "Vlan1200": {
      "admin_status": "up",
      "description": "test 101",
      "members@": "Ethernet1,Ethernet9,Ethernet8,Ethernet2,Ethernet3",
      "mtu": "9100",
      "vlanid": "1200"
    },
    "Vlan1500": {
      "admin_status": "up",
      "description": "Test Vlan",
      "mtu": "9100"
    }
  }
}
```
Some data like COUNTERS table in COUNTERS_DB doesn't have key, but field and value are stored directly under COUNTERS table.

Refer to [SONiC data schema](https://github.com/Azure/sonic-swss-common/blob/master/common/schema.h) for more info about DB and table.

# gRPC operations for data telemetry in SONiC
As mentioned at the beginning, SONiC gRPC data telemetry is largely based on gNMI protocol,  the GetRquest/GetResponse and SubscribeRequest/SubscribeResponse RPC have been implemented. Since SONiC doesn't have complete YANG data model yet, the DB, TABLE, KEY and Field path hierarchy is used as path to uniquely identify the configuration/state and counter data.

## Usage of SONiC telemetry server binary
The binary built from this repo is named as telemetry. To start gRPC data streaming service, simply run it on SONiC switch host environment (for now)
```
root@ASW:~# ./telemetry --help
Usage of ./telemetry:
  -allow_no_client_auth
    	When set, telemetry server will request but not require a client certificate.
  -alsologtostderr
    	log to standard error as well as files
  -ca_crt string
    	CA certificate for client certificate validation. Optional.
  -log_backtrace_at value
    	when logging hits line file:N, emit a stack trace
  -log_dir string
    	If non-empty, write log files in this directory
  -logtostderr
    	log to standard error instead of files
  -port int
    	port to listen on (default -1)
  -server_crt string
    	TLS server certificate
  -server_key string
    	TLS server private key
  -stderrthreshold value
    	logs at or above this threshold go to stderr
  -v value
    	log level for V logs
  -vmodule value
    	comma-separated list of pattern=N settings for file-filtered logging
```
```
root@ASW:~# ./telemetry --port 8080 --server_crt /etc/tls/publickey.cer --server_key /etc/tls/private.key --allow_no_client_auth --logtostderr
```
## GetRequest/GetResponse
The [gnmi_get](https://github.com/jipanyang/gnxi/tree/master/gnmi_get) tool may be used.

```
jipan@6068794801d2:/sonic/go/src/github.com/google/gnxi/gnmi_get$ ./gnmi_get --help
Usage of ./gnmi_get:
  -alsologtostderr
    	log to standard error as well as files
  -ca string
    	CA certificate file.
  -cert string
    	Certificate file.
  -encoding string
    	value encoding format to be used (default "JSON_IETF")
  -insecure
    	Skip TLS validation,
  -key string
    	Private key file.
  -log_backtrace_at value
    	when logging hits line file:N, emit a stack trace
  -log_dir string
    	If non-empty, write log files in this directory
  -logtostderr
    	log to standard error instead of files
  -password string
    	The password matching the provided username.
  -pbpath value
    	protobuf format path of the config node to be fetched
  -pretty
    	Shows PROTOs using Pretty package instead of PROTO Text Marshal
  -stderrthreshold value
    	logs at or above this threshold go to stderr
  -target_addr string
    	The target address in the format of host:port (default "localhost:10161")
  -target_name string
    	The target name use to verify the hostname returned by TLS handshake (default "hostname.com")
  -time_out duration
    	Timeout for the Get request, 10 seconds by default (default 10s)
  -username string
    	If specified, uses username/password credentials.
  -v value
    	log level for V logs
  -vmodule value
    	comma-separated list of pattern=N settings for file-filtered logging
  -xpath value
    	xpath of the config node to be fetched
  -xpath_target string
    	name of the target for which the path is a member (default "CONFIG_DB")
```

target in gNMI path prefix is set as "COUNTERS_DB", table name "COUNTERS_PORT_NAME_MAP" is set as value of path.
The example below shows how to get the interface name to object oid mapping.

```
jipan@6068794801d2:/sonic/go/src/github.com/google/gnxi/gnmi_get$ ./gnmi_get -xpath_target COUNTERS_DB -xpath COUNTERS_PORT_NAME_MAP -target_addr 30.57.185.38:8080 -alsologtostderr -insecure true
== getRequest:
prefix: <
  target: "COUNTERS_DB"
>
path: <
  elem: <
    name: "COUNTERS_PORT_NAME_MAP"
  >
>
encoding: JSON_IETF

== getResponse:
notification: <
  timestamp: 1516150813909959187
  prefix: <
    target: "COUNTERS_DB"
  >
  update: <
    path: <
      elem: <
        name: "COUNTERS_PORT_NAME_MAP"
      >
    >
    val: <
      json_ietf_val: "{\n  \"Ethernet0\": \"oid:0x1000000000002\",\n  \"Ethernet1\": \"oid:0x1000000000003\",\n  \"Ethernet10\": \"oid:0x100000000000c\",\n  \"Ethernet11\": \"oid:0x100000000000d\",\n  \"Ethernet12\": \"oid:0x100000000000e\",\n  \"Ethernet13\": \"oid:0x100000000000f\",\n  \"Ethernet14\": \"oid:0x1000000000010\",\n  \"Ethernet15\": \"oid:0x1000000000011\",\n  \"Ethernet16\": \"oid:0x1000000000012\",\n  \"Ethernet17\": \"oid:0x1000000000013\",\n  \"Ethernet18\": \"oid:0x1000000000014\",\n  \"Ethernet19\": \"oid:0x1000000000015\",\n  \"Ethernet2\": \"oid:0x1000000000004\",\n  \"Ethernet20\": \"oid:0x1000000000016\",\n  \"Ethernet21\": \"oid:0x1000000000017\",\n  \"Ethernet22\": \"oid:0x1000000000018\",\n  \"Ethernet23\": \"oid:0x1000000000019\",\n  \"Ethernet24\": \"oid:0x100000000001a\",\n  \"Ethernet25\": \"oid:0x100000000001b\",\n  \"Ethernet26\": \"oid:0x100000000001c\",\n  \"Ethernet27\": \"oid:0x100000000001d\",\n  \"Ethernet28\": \"oid:0x100000000001e\",\n  \"Ethernet29\": \"oid:0x100000000001f\",\n  \"Ethernet3\": \"oid:0x1000000000005\",\n  \"Ethernet30\": \"oid:0x1000000000020\",\n  \"Ethernet31\": \"oid:0x1000000000021\",\n  \"Ethernet32\": \"oid:0x1000000000022\",\n  \"Ethernet33\": \"oid:0x1000000000023\",\n  \"Ethernet34\": \"oid:0x1000000000024\",\n  \"Ethernet35\": \"oid:0x1000000000025\",\n  \"Ethernet36\": \"oid:0x1000000000027\",\n  \"Ethernet37\": \"oid:0x1000000000028\",\n  \"Ethernet38\": \"oid:0x1000000000029\",\n  \"Ethernet39\": \"oid:0x100000000002a\",\n  \"Ethernet4\": \"oid:0x1000000000006\",\n  \"Ethernet40\": \"oid:0x100000000002b\",\n  \"Ethernet41\": \"oid:0x100000000002c\",\n  \"Ethernet42\": \"oid:0x100000000002d\",\n  \"Ethernet43\": \"oid:0x100000000002e\",\n  \"Ethernet44\": \"oid:0x100000000002f\",\n  \"Ethernet45\": \"oid:0x1000000000030\",\n  \"Ethernet46\": \"oid:0x1000000000031\",\n  \"Ethernet47\": \"oid:0x1000000000032\",\n  \"Ethernet48\": \"oid:0x1000000000033\",\n  \"Ethernet5\": \"oid:0x1000000000007\",\n  \"Ethernet52\": \"oid:0x1000000000035\",\n  \"Ethernet56\": \"oid:0x1000000000036\",\n  \"Ethernet6\": \"oid:0x1000000000008\",\n  \"Ethernet60\": \"oid:0x1000000000037\",\n  \"Ethernet64\": \"oid:0x1000000000038\",\n  \"Ethernet68\": \"oid:0x1000000000039\",\n  \"Ethernet7\": \"oid:0x1000000000009\",\n  \"Ethernet8\": \"oid:0x100000000000a\",\n  \"Ethernet9\": \"oid:0x100000000000b\"\n}"
    >
  >
>
```

The oid of Ethernet9 is oid:0x100000000000b, here it is used to get the real counters for the Ethernet9. Later we'll use the same path "COUNTERS/oid:0x100000000000b" in SubscribeRequest.
```
jipan@6068794801d2:/sonic/go/src/github.com/google/gnxi/gnmi_get$ ./gnmi_get -xpath_target COUNTERS_DB -xpath COUNTERS/oid:0x100000000000b -target_addr 30.57.185.38:8080 -alsologtostderr -insecure true
== getRequest:
prefix: <
  target: "COUNTERS_DB"
>
path: <
  elem: <
    name: "COUNTERS"
  >
  elem: <
    name: "oid:0x100000000000b"
  >
>
encoding: JSON_IETF

== getResponse:
notification: <
  timestamp: 1516153528223062096
  prefix: <
    target: "COUNTERS_DB"
  >
  update: <
    path: <
      elem: <
        name: "COUNTERS"
      >
      elem: <
        name: "oid:0x100000000000b"
      >
    >
    val: <
      json_ietf_val: "{\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_1024_TO_1518_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_128_TO_255_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_1519_TO_2047_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_2048_TO_4095_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_256_TO_511_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_4096_TO_9216_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_512_TO_1023_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_64_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_65_TO_127_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_9217_TO_16383_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_1024_TO_1518_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_128_TO_255_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_1519_TO_2047_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_2048_TO_4095_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_256_TO_511_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_4096_TO_9216_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_512_TO_1023_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_64_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_65_TO_127_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_9217_TO_16383_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_RX_OVERSIZE_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_BROADCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_COLLISIONS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_CRC_ALIGN_ERRORS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_DROP_EVENTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_FRAGMENTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_JABBERS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_MULTICAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_OVERSIZE_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_1024_TO_1518_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_128_TO_255_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_1519_TO_2047_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_2048_TO_4095_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_256_TO_511_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_4096_TO_9216_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_512_TO_1023_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_64_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_65_TO_127_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_9217_TO_16383_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_RX_NO_ERRORS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_TX_NO_ERRORS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_UNDERSIZE_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_TX_OVERSIZE_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_BROADCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_ERRORS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_MULTICAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_UNKNOWN_PROTOS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_VLAN_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_BROADCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_ERRORS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_MULTICAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_QLEN\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_MCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_RECEIVES\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_OUT_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_OUT_MCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_OUT_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_OUT_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_OUT_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_IN_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_IN_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_IN_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_IN_RECEIVES\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_IN_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_OUT_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_OUT_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_OUT_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_OUT_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_0_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_0_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_0_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_1_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_1_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_1_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_2_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_2_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_2_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_3_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_3_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_3_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_4_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_4_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_4_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_5_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_5_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_5_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_6_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_6_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_6_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_TX_PKTS\": \"0\"\n}"
    >
  >
>
```
## SubscribeRequest
### Stream mode
With stream mode of SubscribeRequest, SONiC will first send all data on the requested path to data collector, then stream data to collector upon any change on the path.

[gnmi_cli](https://github.com/jipanyang/gnmi/tree/master/cmd/gnmi_cli) could be used to excersize gRPC SubscribeRequest here.

Any time the PFC counter on queue 7 of Ethernet9 (which is identified with oid:0x100000000000b) "COUNTERS/oid:0x100000000000b/SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS" has change, the update is streamed to gnmi_cli collector.

```
jipan@6068794801d2:/sonic/go/src/github.com/openconfig/gnmi/cmd/gnmi_cli$ ./gnmi_cli -client_types=gnmi -a 30.57.185.38:8080 -q COUNTERS/oid:0x100000000000b/SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS -logtostderr -insecure -qt s  -t COUNTERS_DB -v 0 -timestamp on
sendQueryAndDisplay: GROUP 3 query.Queries: [[COUNTERS oid:0x100000000000b SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS]]
{
  "COUNTERS": {
    "oid:0x100000000000b": {
      "SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS": {
        "timestamp": "2018-01-17T02:03:40.420598699Z",
        "value": "0"
      }
    }
  }
}
{
  "COUNTERS": {
    "oid:0x100000000000b": {
      "SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS": {
        "timestamp": "2018-01-17T02:03:55.425800193Z",
        "value": "1"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Poll mode
With poll mode SubscribeRequest, collector poll the data path periodically. Example below shows the command line used and the corresponding output: ( -qt p -pi 10s) query type is polling and polling interval of 10s.

```
jipan@6068794801d2:/sonic/go/src/github.com/openconfig/gnmi/cmd/gnmi_cli$ ./gnmi_cli -client_types=gnmi -a 30.57.185.38:8080 -q COUNTERS/oid:0x100000000000b/SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS -logtostderr -insecure -qt p -pi 10s  -t COUNTERS_DB -v 0 -timestamp on
sendQueryAndDisplay: GROUP 2 query.Queries: [[COUNTERS oid:0x100000000000b SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS]]
{
  "COUNTERS": {
    "oid:0x100000000000b": {
      "SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS": {
        "timestamp": "2018-01-17-02:08:57.637157422",
        "value": "0"
      }
    }
  }
}
{
  "COUNTERS": {
    "oid:0x100000000000b": {
      "SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS": {
        "timestamp": "2018-01-17-02:09:07.638710016",
        "value": "0"
      }
    }
  }
}
{
  "COUNTERS": {
    "oid:0x100000000000b": {
      "SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS": {
        "timestamp": "2018-01-17-02:09:17.640400999",
        "value": "0"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
# Authentication
To be implemented, may support integration with SONiC TACACS. User will be authenticated on per RPC basis.

# Encryption
TLS encryption is supported with gRPC communication.

Commit message:

Support insecure TLS server mode, using fixed X509KeyPair

doc/grpc_telemetry.md, after:

# SONiC gRPC data telemetry

   * [Overview of gRPC data telemetry in SONiC](#overview-of-grpc-data-telemetry-in-sonic)
   * [Data available in SONiC](#data-available-in-sonic)
   * [gRPC operations for data telemetry in SONiC](#grpc-operations-for-data-telemetry-in-sonic)
      * [Usage of SONiC telemetry server binary](#usage-of-sonic-telemetry-server-binary)
      * [GetRequest/GetResponse](#getrequestgetresponse)
      * [SubscribeRequest](#subscriberequest)
         * [Stream mode](#stream-mode)
         * [Poll mode](#poll-mode)
   * [Authentication](#authentication)
   * [Encryption](#encryption)

# Overview of gRPC data telemetry in SONiC

At the daily operation of datacenter network, being able to get the underlying characteristics of the network devices - either operational state or configuration, efficiently and quickly in structured format will greatly facilitate the analysis of network status and improve network stability.  Besides the traditional data collecting methods like SNMP, syslog and CLI,  gRPC is the modern communication protocol supported by SONiC for telemetry streaming.

The implementation of gRPC data telemetry is largely based on [gNMI](https://github.com/openconfig/reference/blob/master/rpc/gnmi/gnmi-specification.md) (gRPC Network Management Interface) with customization for SONiC.

# Data available in SONiC

In SONiC, most of the critical network and system data is stored in redisDB. Based on the data type and usage, they are spread in 6 DBs

|DB name    |   DB No. |     Description|
|  ----     |:----:| ----|
|APPL_DB    |  0 |   Application running data |
|ASIC_DB    |  1 |   ASIC configuration and state data
|COUNTERS_DB | 2 |   Counter data for port, lag, queue
|LOGLEVEL_DB | 3 |   Log level control for SONiC modules
|CONFIG_DB   | 4 |   Source of truth for SONiC configuration
|PFC_WD_DB   | 5 |   For PFC watch dog counters control
|FLEX_COUNTER_DB| 5 | Alias for PFC_WD_DB
|STATE_DB       | 6 | Configuration state for object in CONFIG_DB

The role and layer of each DB is also shown in the diagram below:

![SONiC DB](img/sonic_db.png)

Within each DB,  the data usually is organized in hierarchy of Table, key, field, value. Ex.  for "CONFIG_DB", there is "VLAN" table, and "Vlan1500" is one of the keys in this table,  associated with "Vlan1500" there is one field named "admin_status" with value of "up"

```
{
  "VLAN": {
    "Vlan1200": {
      "admin_status": "up",
      "description": "test 101",
      "members@": "Ethernet1,Ethernet9,Ethernet8,Ethernet2,Ethernet3",
      "mtu": "9100",
      "vlanid": "1200"
    },
    "Vlan1500": {
      "admin_status": "up",
      "description": "Test Vlan",
      "mtu": "9100"
    }
  }
}
```
Some data like COUNTERS table in COUNTERS_DB doesn't have key, but field and value are stored directly under COUNTERS table.

Refer to [SONiC data schema](https://github.com/Azure/sonic-swss-common/blob/master/common/schema.h) for more info about DB and table.

# gRPC operations for data telemetry in SONiC
As mentioned at the beginning, SONiC gRPC data telemetry is largely based on gNMI protocol,  the GetRquest/GetResponse and SubscribeRequest/SubscribeResponse RPC have been implemented. Since SONiC doesn't have complete YANG data model yet, the DB, TABLE, KEY and Field path hierarchy is used as path to uniquely identify the configuration/state and counter data.

## Usage of SONiC telemetry server binary
The binary built from this repo is named as telemetry. To start gRPC data streaming service, simply run it on SONiC switch host environment (for now)
```
root@ASW:~# ./telemetry --help
Usage of ./telemetry:
  -allow_no_client_auth
      When set, telemetry server will request but not require a client certificate.
  -alsologtostderr
      log to standard error as well as files
  -ca_crt string
      CA certificate for client certificate validation. Optional.
  -insecure
      Skip providing TLS cert and key, for testing only!
  -log_backtrace_at value
      when logging hits line file:N, emit a stack trace
  -log_dir string
      If non-empty, write log files in this directory
  -logtostderr
      log to standard error instead of files
  -port int
      port to listen on (default -1)
  -server_crt string
      TLS server certificate
  -server_key string
      TLS server private key
  -stderrthreshold value
      logs at or above this threshold go to stderr
  -v value
      log level for V logs
  -vmodule value
      comma-separated list of pattern=N settings for file-filtered logging
```

```
root@ASW:~# ./telemetry --port 8080 --server_crt /etc/tls/publickey.cer --server_key /etc/tls/private.key --allow_no_client_auth --logtostderr
```
## GetRequest/GetResponse
The [gnmi_get](https://github.com/jipanyang/gnxi/tree/master/gnmi_get) tool may be used.

```
jipan@6068794801d2:/sonic/go/src/github.com/google/gnxi/gnmi_get$ ./gnmi_get --help
Usage of ./gnmi_get:
  -alsologtostderr
    	log to standard error as well as files
  -ca string
    	CA certificate file.
  -cert string
    	Certificate file.
  -encoding string
    	value encoding format to be used (default "JSON_IETF")
  -insecure
    	Skip TLS validation,
  -key string
    	Private key file.
  -log_backtrace_at value
    	when logging hits line file:N, emit a stack trace
  -log_dir string
    	If non-empty, write log files in this directory
  -logtostderr
    	log to standard error instead of files
  -password string
    	The password matching the provided username.
  -pbpath value
    	protobuf format path of the config node to be fetched
  -pretty
    	Shows PROTOs using Pretty package instead of PROTO Text Marshal
  -stderrthreshold value
    	logs at or above this threshold go to stderr
  -target_addr string
    	The target address in the format of host:port (default "localhost:10161")
  -target_name string
    	The target name use to verify the hostname returned by TLS handshake (default "hostname.com")
  -time_out duration
    	Timeout for the Get request, 10 seconds by default (default 10s)
  -username string
    	If specified, uses username/password credentials.
  -v value
    	log level for V logs
  -vmodule value
    	comma-separated list of pattern=N settings for file-filtered logging
  -xpath value
    	xpath of the config node to be fetched
  -xpath_target string
    	name of the target for which the path is a member (default "CONFIG_DB")
```

target in gNMI path prefix is set as "COUNTERS_DB", table name "COUNTERS_PORT_NAME_MAP" is set as value of path.
The example below shows how to get the interface name to object oid mapping.

```
jipan@6068794801d2:/sonic/go/src/github.com/google/gnxi/gnmi_get$ ./gnmi_get -xpath_target COUNTERS_DB -xpath COUNTERS_PORT_NAME_MAP -target_addr 30.57.185.38:8080 -alsologtostderr -insecure true
== getRequest:
prefix: <
  target: "COUNTERS_DB"
>
path: <
  elem: <
    name: "COUNTERS_PORT_NAME_MAP"
  >
>
encoding: JSON_IETF

== getResponse:
notification: <
  timestamp: 1516150813909959187
  prefix: <
    target: "COUNTERS_DB"
  >
  update: <
    path: <
      elem: <
        name: "COUNTERS_PORT_NAME_MAP"
      >
    >
    val: <
      json_ietf_val: "{\n  \"Ethernet0\": \"oid:0x1000000000002\",\n  \"Ethernet1\": \"oid:0x1000000000003\",\n  \"Ethernet10\": \"oid:0x100000000000c\",\n  \"Ethernet11\": \"oid:0x100000000000d\",\n  \"Ethernet12\": \"oid:0x100000000000e\",\n  \"Ethernet13\": \"oid:0x100000000000f\",\n  \"Ethernet14\": \"oid:0x1000000000010\",\n  \"Ethernet15\": \"oid:0x1000000000011\",\n  \"Ethernet16\": \"oid:0x1000000000012\",\n  \"Ethernet17\": \"oid:0x1000000000013\",\n  \"Ethernet18\": \"oid:0x1000000000014\",\n  \"Ethernet19\": \"oid:0x1000000000015\",\n  \"Ethernet2\": \"oid:0x1000000000004\",\n  \"Ethernet20\": \"oid:0x1000000000016\",\n  \"Ethernet21\": \"oid:0x1000000000017\",\n  \"Ethernet22\": \"oid:0x1000000000018\",\n  \"Ethernet23\": \"oid:0x1000000000019\",\n  \"Ethernet24\": \"oid:0x100000000001a\",\n  \"Ethernet25\": \"oid:0x100000000001b\",\n  \"Ethernet26\": \"oid:0x100000000001c\",\n  \"Ethernet27\": \"oid:0x100000000001d\",\n  \"Ethernet28\": \"oid:0x100000000001e\",\n  \"Ethernet29\": \"oid:0x100000000001f\",\n  \"Ethernet3\": \"oid:0x1000000000005\",\n  \"Ethernet30\": \"oid:0x1000000000020\",\n  \"Ethernet31\": \"oid:0x1000000000021\",\n  \"Ethernet32\": \"oid:0x1000000000022\",\n  \"Ethernet33\": \"oid:0x1000000000023\",\n  \"Ethernet34\": \"oid:0x1000000000024\",\n  \"Ethernet35\": \"oid:0x1000000000025\",\n  \"Ethernet36\": \"oid:0x1000000000027\",\n  \"Ethernet37\": \"oid:0x1000000000028\",\n  \"Ethernet38\": \"oid:0x1000000000029\",\n  \"Ethernet39\": \"oid:0x100000000002a\",\n  \"Ethernet4\": \"oid:0x1000000000006\",\n  \"Ethernet40\": \"oid:0x100000000002b\",\n  \"Ethernet41\": \"oid:0x100000000002c\",\n  \"Ethernet42\": \"oid:0x100000000002d\",\n  \"Ethernet43\": \"oid:0x100000000002e\",\n  \"Ethernet44\": \"oid:0x100000000002f\",\n  \"Ethernet45\": \"oid:0x1000000000030\",\n  \"Ethernet46\": \"oid:0x1000000000031\",\n  \"Ethernet47\": \"oid:0x1000000000032\",\n  \"Ethernet48\": \"oid:0x1000000000033\",\n  \"Ethernet5\": \"oid:0x1000000000007\",\n  \"Ethernet52\": \"oid:0x1000000000035\",\n  \"Ethernet56\": \"oid:0x1000000000036\",\n  \"Ethernet6\": \"oid:0x1000000000008\",\n  \"Ethernet60\": \"oid:0x1000000000037\",\n  \"Ethernet64\": \"oid:0x1000000000038\",\n  \"Ethernet68\": \"oid:0x1000000000039\",\n  \"Ethernet7\": \"oid:0x1000000000009\",\n  \"Ethernet8\": \"oid:0x100000000000a\",\n  \"Ethernet9\": \"oid:0x100000000000b\"\n}"
    >
  >
>
```

The oid of Ethernet9 is oid:0x100000000000b, here it is used to get the real counters for the Ethernet9. Later we'll use the same path "COUNTERS/oid:0x100000000000b" in SubscribeRequest.
```
jipan@6068794801d2:/sonic/go/src/github.com/google/gnxi/gnmi_get$ ./gnmi_get -xpath_target COUNTERS_DB -xpath COUNTERS/oid:0x100000000000b -target_addr 30.57.185.38:8080 -alsologtostderr -insecure true
== getRequest:
prefix: <
  target: "COUNTERS_DB"
>
path: <
  elem: <
    name: "COUNTERS"
  >
  elem: <
    name: "oid:0x100000000000b"
  >
>
encoding: JSON_IETF

== getResponse:
notification: <
  timestamp: 1516153528223062096
  prefix: <
    target: "COUNTERS_DB"
  >
  update: <
    path: <
      elem: <
        name: "COUNTERS"
      >
      elem: <
        name: "oid:0x100000000000b"
      >
    >
    val: <
      json_ietf_val: "{\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_1024_TO_1518_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_128_TO_255_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_1519_TO_2047_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_2048_TO_4095_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_256_TO_511_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_4096_TO_9216_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_512_TO_1023_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_64_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_65_TO_127_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_IN_PKTS_9217_TO_16383_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_1024_TO_1518_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_128_TO_255_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_1519_TO_2047_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_2048_TO_4095_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_256_TO_511_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_4096_TO_9216_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_512_TO_1023_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_64_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_65_TO_127_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_OUT_PKTS_9217_TO_16383_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_RX_OVERSIZE_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_BROADCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_COLLISIONS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_CRC_ALIGN_ERRORS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_DROP_EVENTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_FRAGMENTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_JABBERS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_MULTICAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_OVERSIZE_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_1024_TO_1518_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_128_TO_255_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_1519_TO_2047_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_2048_TO_4095_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_256_TO_511_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_4096_TO_9216_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_512_TO_1023_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_64_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_65_TO_127_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_PKTS_9217_TO_16383_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_RX_NO_ERRORS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_TX_NO_ERRORS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_STATS_UNDERSIZE_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_ETHER_TX_OVERSIZE_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_BROADCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_ERRORS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_MULTICAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_UNKNOWN_PROTOS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_IN_VLAN_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_BROADCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_ERRORS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_MULTICAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_QLEN\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IF_OUT_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_MCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_RECEIVES\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_IN_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_OUT_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_OUT_MCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_OUT_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_OUT_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IPV6_OUT_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_IN_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_IN_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_IN_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_IN_RECEIVES\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_IN_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_OUT_DISCARDS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_OUT_NON_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_OUT_OCTETS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_IP_OUT_UCAST_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_0_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_0_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_0_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_1_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_1_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_1_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_2_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_2_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_2_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_3_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_3_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_3_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_4_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_4_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_4_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_5_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_5_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_5_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_6_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_6_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_6_TX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_ON2OFF_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS\": \"0\",\n  \"SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_TX_PKTS\": \"0\"\n}"
    >
  >
>
```
## SubscribeRequest
### Stream mode
With stream mode of SubscribeRequest, SONiC will first send all data on the requested path to data collector, then stream data to collector upon any change on the path.

[gnmi_cli](https://github.com/jipanyang/gnmi/tree/master/cmd/gnmi_cli) could be used to excersize gRPC SubscribeRequest here.

Any time the PFC counter on queue 7 of Ethernet9 (which is identified with oid:0x100000000000b) "COUNTERS/oid:0x100000000000b/SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS" has change, the update is streamed to gnmi_cli collector.

```
jipan@6068794801d2:/sonic/go/src/github.com/openconfig/gnmi/cmd/gnmi_cli$ ./gnmi_cli -client_types=gnmi -a 30.57.185.38:8080 -q COUNTERS/oid:0x100000000000b/SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS -logtostderr -insecure -qt s  -t COUNTERS_DB -v 0 -timestamp on
sendQueryAndDisplay: GROUP 3 query.Queries: [[COUNTERS oid:0x100000000000b SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS]]
{
  "COUNTERS": {
    "oid:0x100000000000b": {
      "SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS": {
        "timestamp": "2018-01-17T02:03:40.420598699Z",
        "value": "0"
      }
    }
  }
}
{
  "COUNTERS": {
    "oid:0x100000000000b": {
      "SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS": {
        "timestamp": "2018-01-17T02:03:55.425800193Z",
        "value": "1"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Poll mode
With poll mode SubscribeRequest, collector poll the data path periodically. Example below shows the command line used and the corresponding output: ( -qt p -pi 10s) query type is polling and polling interval of 10s.

```
jipan@6068794801d2:/sonic/go/src/github.com/openconfig/gnmi/cmd/gnmi_cli$ ./gnmi_cli -client_types=gnmi -a 30.57.185.38:8080 -q COUNTERS/oid:0x100000000000b/SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS -logtostderr -insecure -qt p -pi 10s  -t COUNTERS_DB -v 0 -timestamp on
sendQueryAndDisplay: GROUP 2 query.Queries: [[COUNTERS oid:0x100000000000b SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS]]
{
  "COUNTERS": {
    "oid:0x100000000000b": {
      "SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS": {
        "timestamp": "2018-01-17-02:08:57.637157422",
        "value": "0"
      }
    }
  }
}
{
  "COUNTERS": {
    "oid:0x100000000000b": {
      "SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS": {
        "timestamp": "2018-01-17-02:09:07.638710016",
        "value": "0"
      }
    }
  }
}
{
  "COUNTERS": {
    "oid:0x100000000000b": {
      "SAI_PORT_STAT_PFC_7_RX_PKTS": {
        "timestamp": "2018-01-17-02:09:17.640400999",
        "value": "0"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
# Authentication
To be implemented, may support integration with SONiC TACACS. User will be authenticated on per RPC basis.

# Encryption
TLS encryption is supported with gRPC communication.
